---
layout: post
title: "HTML"
date: 2016-04-14 08:50:10
comments: true
description: "HTML: What is it and why do I need it?"
keywords: ""
categories:
- Combos
- Coding
- Basics
- Web Applications
tags:
- We made it
- Apple, the only way
- GROWTH
- Code like a pro
---

If you’ve ever watched Silicon Valley on HBO, then you probably know and love Erlich Bachman. In the first episode, Erlich is wearing a shirt that says “I know H.T.M.L. (how to meet ladies)” This, while mocking the code, also hints towards its importance and relevance on the internet. HTML actually stands for Hypertext Markup Language. This title references the languages use in adding hyperlinks (now we just call them links) and adding semantics <a target='_blank' href="https://sites.google.com/a/umn.edu/html-introduction/what-is-html">1</a>. Semantics were revolutionary because before HTML, there were only plain text documents. HTML, however, is not a programming language. HTML, as the name suggests, is a markup language, meaning in only really displays text, audio, and media in different formats, but it can’t really be used to program anything other than a website. Even when it is programming a website, it only really acts as a guide for what the website should display <a target='_blank' href="http://infospace.ischool.syr.edu/2012/04/05/why-html-is-not-a-programming-language/ ">2</a>. If you know HTML, you could still call yourself a coder. Sure, HTML can’t really program anything, but you can create data structures and intricate websites that illustrate your coding abilities. And, chances are, if you create a website using HTML, you also know one or more other languages to add more functions to your website. HTML is used for what is known as frontend coding. Frontend implies exactly what you might think. The frontend code is the code that creates the user interface, or what the user can see. The backend of code refers to the code working behind the scenes, usually for the application, database, and server <a target='_blank' href="http://blog.teamtreehouse.com/i-dont-speak-your-language-frontend-vs-backend">3</a>. Think of facebook. The frontend is all of the profiles, your newsfeed, all the photos and video, you see, your list of friends, etc. The backend is what you don’t see for facebook: the massive servers allowing all the millions of people to go on facebook, the enormous database to hold the awe-inspiring amounts of data, the application that makes facebook work like a charm, etc. Thus, HTML may not be a programming language, but it is essential to web application.

Sources:
1. <a target='_blank' href="https://sites.google.com/a/umn.edu/html-introduction/what-is-html">what is HTML?</a>
2. <a target='_blank' href="http://infospace.ischool.syr.edu/2012/04/05/why-html-is-not-a-programming-language/ ">infospace.ischool.syr.edu</a>
3. <a target='_blank' href="http://blog.teamtreehouse.com/i-dont-speak-your-language-frontend-vs-backend">blog.teamtreehouse.com</a>